Question number two,
which statements are true?
A, the render tree contains all the
elements from the DOM and CSSOM combined.
B, compositing is the process of
separating layers based on z-index,
which are then combined to form
the final image displayed on the screen.
C is the layout process assigns colors and
images to the visual
elements in the reder tree.
D, the compositing process happens
on the compositor thread, or E,
elements that aren't visible on the page.
So for example with display hidden,
are not part of the dom tree.
Let's go to the answer.
So the only right answer here is D.
The compositing process happens
on the compositor thread.
So this question is all about
the rendering pipeline.
Because before the browser
is able to render anything,
it has to first parse the HTML and
generate a DOM tree,
which represents the static
markup as a tree data structure.
And it does the same for the CSS, but
that one representing the styles and
rules apply to every elements.
And after doing it, kind of combines
both trees, and it only includes like
the visual elements the elements that
will actually see on the screen into
a render tree, and this tree contains
both the styles as well as the HTML.
It doesn't include, again,
any elements that aren't visible,
not the head elements or
anything with display hidden.
This is just what will
eventually get rendered.
Based on this tree, the next phase
happens which is the layout process.
So in that case,
it calculates the position, the size, and
the geometry of every element that
will eventually render on the screen.
And it also takes into account like
viewport element dimensions all
those things.
Then the next phase is the painting phase,
right,
when it actually creates a visual
representation of a DOM tree on
the screen so it's actually when it
starts to render those pixels, yeah,
the entire rasterization process
happens during this paints method.
And this also takes into
consideration the screen resolution,
everything that can be
painted on the screen.
Now after paints is the compositing phase.
Because as the browser is painting it,
it's actually doing it on a separate layer
sometimes depending on
the styles you're using,
we'll talk about that in
another question as well.
But then at the very end, it actually
merges all those layouts together into one
final bitmap, one final image that
eventually gets rendered on the screen.
So when we go back to those statements,
the render tree contains all the elements
from the DOM and the CSSOM combined.
That's Not true.
It's not all the elements,
it's only the visual elements.
So the head elements as I said,
the display hidden,
they won't be included in the render tree.
>> Is the combination of DOM and
CSSOM called the render tree?
Then
>> Yeah, that's the render tree.
Sorry if I didn't mention that.
It's called the render tree.
Yeah.
And then those are kind of special notes.
And all of these notes
have internal methods that
eventually the drawer in Chromium,
Skia can use to invoke that,
and then it'll actually paint
something on the screen.
But then be like compositing is a process
of separating layers based on z-index,
which are then combined
to form the final image.
That's not true.
Compositing is just a process of
combining those layers together.
And the z-index plays a role in kind
of the stacking order of these layers,
but it's not separating
anything based on it itself.
And then the layout
process assigns colors and
images to the visual
elements in the render tree.
It's not the layout process,
it's a paint process.
And the E falls elements that aren't
visible, for example display hidden,
aren't part of DOM tree.
They are part of the DOM tree,
just not the render tree.
So the compositing process
happens on the compositor thread.
And this is like a separate thread in your
GPU that your browser uses to kind of
offload that pretty expensive
compositing process.
So it doesn't all happen
on your own device.
This is much faster, allows for much
smoother animations, all the good stuff.